hello and a very warm welcome to the
program I'm Sally bundock and we start
with the news that US President Joe
Biden will visit Israel on Wednesday in
a show of support after more than 1,400
people were killed by Hamas gunmen last
weekend top us Diplomat Anthony blinkin
made the announcement after late night
talks in Tel Aviv he also said the US
and Israel had agreed on a plan to allow
humanitarian Aid into Gaza where un
agencies have warned of a deepening
crisis and more than 2,800 people there
have been killed by Israeli air strikes
meanwhile Hamas which is designated as a
terrorist organization by governments
including the UK and US says it fired a
barrage of rockets at Jerusalem and Tel
Aviv overnight with Sirens sending
lawmakers to bomb shelters and we can
bring you some live pictures of Gaza
today it's now just after 8 a.m. with
another very difficult day ahead for
garans who are coping with uh severe uh
restrictions on water electricity with
Food Supplies running dry and also uh
critical medicines running
out so more now on the news that
President Joe Biden will visit Israel on
Wednesday US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin said President Biden will focus
on securing the release of hostages
taken by Hamas while underscoring the to
minimize civilian casualties in Gaza the
United States and Israel have agreed to
develop a plan that will enable
humanitarian aid from donor Nations and
multilateral organizations to reach
civilians in Gaza and them alone
including the possibility of creating
areas to help keep civilians out of
Harm's Way It Is critical that Aid begin
flowing into Gaza as soon as possible we
share Israel's concern that Hamas May
seize or destroy Aid entering Gaza or
otherwise is preventing it from reaching
the people who need it if Hamas in any
way blocks humanitarian assistance from
reaching civilians including by seizing
the aid itself we'll be the first to
condemn it and we will work to prevent
it from happening again we welcome the
government of Israel's commitment to
work on this plan the president very
much looks forward to discussing it
further when he's here on Wednesday well
I spoke to our North America
correspondent David Willis who explained
the significance of the president's
visit well Anthony blink Sally said that
this was all about confirming the United
States solidarity uh with Israel and as
he put it the Ironclad commitment to
Israel's security and President Biden as
part of this visit will be receiving
what's called a classified and
comprehensive brief on Israel's war aims
and strategy now of course uh key
element of that strategy is thought to
be some sort of ground Invasion and it's
become clear that uh given the
full-throated support for Israel's def
right to defend itself earlier on the
United States has grown increasingly
concerned about the possibility of some
sort of humanitarian crisis given the
fact that water and Food Supplies
already said to be running low in parts
of the enclave and so on so a part of
this uh meeting today with Benjamin
Netanyahu on the part of the US
Secretary of State and blinkin was its
thought to ring some sort of
humanitarian reassurances on behalf of
the United States and some of its Arab
allies uh regarding the possible uh
terms of that ground Invasion if you
like the creation of safe areas for
Palestinian civilians who uh obviously
do not want to get involved in uh what's
going to be happening there and also uh
some sort of means of getting
humanitarian foreign aid into those who
are not involved with Hamas also the
president is expected to meet with other
leaders in the region isn't
he he is yes he's going to go on to a
man in Jordan where he's to meet with
King Abdullah and also president CeCe of
Egypt and the Palestinian leader Mahmud
Abbas now President Biden the United
States uh wants to want to prevent this
conflict from spreading and uh from
other actors Hezbollah most notably
among them from becoming involved and
broadening this conflict so it is very
important to keep those sort of allies
on board and to be seen to be listening
to their concerns and of course primary
among those concerns is that sort of
humanitarian crisis that could develop
so easily in Gaza uh if Israel does
indeed Mount this ground offensive Sally